	In this Project I have used the Interbotix xsarm perception tool box to and the ollama moondream model to control the widowx250s arm. The xsarm perception package is a ros package provided by Trossen Robotix. In the lab I was given with the WidowX 250s arm from Trossen Robotix. It has 6 degrees of Freedom. Once the Arm is connected to the linux computer, We also need to connect the intel Realsense D415 Depth camera to the linux computer as well. once the connections are made now we are ready to run the perceptions package.

We need to run the ros interbotix perception package using "ros2 launch interbotix_xsarm_perception xsarm_perception.launch.py robot_model:=wx250s use_armtag_tuner_gui:=true use_pointcloud_tuner_gui:=true"

	Since I am using the wx250s arm I have given that model in the command. also we use the armtag tuner gui to capture the april tag on the Widowx250s's arm we do that so that we know where the robot arm is with respect to the camera. This step is very crutial because only if this is done right the arm will pick up objects right. The Apriltag should face the camera. IT SHOULD NOT BE INVERTED OR IN ANY OTHER ORIENTATION. IT SHOULD FACE THE CAMERA 
AND WHEN SEEN THROUGH THE CAMERA IT SHOULD NOT BE INVERTED. And after the postion is set we need to press the snap button so that the transforms in the RVIZ update accordingly.

	The point cloud tuner GUI is used to setup the camera configurations. The first option which we see is the crop box Filter, Which can be used to change the size of the green cropbox. generally it is suggsted that we set the crop box to only the space which we will be working since the depth camera will be considering a lot of point clouds, there by making it computationally intensive. Next is the Vortex Grid Filter which has the leaf size option. Here the leaf size is the size of each point in the cluster. I have set it to 0.6 since keeping a lower value will make it more computationally expensive and keeping a very high value will make lose accuracy. The segmentation Filter's distance threshold is what makes the camera differntiate the ground points and the points on the table. The Radius outlier removal filter is used to remove differntiate different objects. Like if 2 or more objects are very close depending on the value it will decicde if its the same cluster or different cluster. the last one is the cluster filter which will tell minimum cluster size and the maximum cluster size. an object will be considered a cluster depending on the number of minumum and maximum value of the points found. after setting up the values save the filter_parameters.yaml file to load up the same configs next time.
	
	For starters I tested out the xsarm_perception ros package with the normal pick up and drop script. Using the pick_place.py script in the scripts folder. What it does is it just picks up whatever is placed under the camera and drops them to the right side of the robot the dropping postion is hard coded. I also tried to automate the armtag scanning, But it wasnt working right all the time sometimes it worked and sometimes the snap wasnt great so the transform was messed up. 
	
	Next I used the color_sorter.py script which will use the the camera's data and all the clusters available under the camera check for their colour using the camera's RGB Data checks their hue and if it is in a certain range it picks them up and then drops them into a bin. I placed yellow and blue balls under the camera and then ran the script, I hard coded the drop locations. So the arm separates the colours and dropped them in respective bins.
	
	For integrating with ollama what I did was I pulled the llama3.2 vision and then tried to give it a prompt along with the resized 640x480 image from the realsense camera, the prompt was basically asking the model to send back coordinates of where a certain object that a user asks for is located. The llama3.2 model was very slow and it was always timed out. Next I used the light weight moondream model, With the moon dream model I was getting back the coordinates. Once I recieved the coordinates, I needed to convert the cluster's coordinates from the camera's pov I did that in the ollama_pick_place.py script in the scripts folder. Once it converts that the script picks up the nearest converted cluster coordinates which lies close to the coordinates sent by the llm. then it picks the object and drops it in a hardcoded location. When the ollama_pick_place.py script is run it asks for what what object it needs to pick up. This is done after the armtag is scanned. I tested it out with various objects including fruits different coloured balls, marker pens, hammers and joysticks. For Irregular objects It was noted that they need to be spaced and placed under camera since at times the arm was picking up wrong. It could be wrong cooridinates from the llm or faulty calculation from the nearest cluster finding scripts.



